In this lesson we're going to look at
another variation
of the try except, and that's called the
try except finally.
The finally clause is used to execute code
that you want to run
no matter what else happens throughout the
rest of the exception handling process.
And in this lesson, I'm just going to
demonstrate, through code that we don't
actually run, how
the finally can be coded, and then in the
exercise, we'll see how it actually works
in practice.
So first of all, let's look at the general
form,
so we have the try clause, which we're
familiar with.
Then we have the accept clause, which of
course
we know to use when we have an exception
thrown.
And then below that we can put finally,
and the finally clause will also include a
set
of statements that we want to execute no
matter
what else happens and right before the
program ends.
The most common use for that is to
do things like close files and release
resources.
Let me show you in code how it might look.
We'll call this program finally.py.
So in our try, we might have something
like, prompt the user to enter a file
name.
Get the name from the user and then open a
file.
Let's say we open it to write, because
when we open it
to write then it makes a difference if
it's closed or not.
In the except we might have something like
print, error with file,
print enter a file name, and then try to
open the file again.
And, then in the finally clause we might
include the function to close the file.
One place where this might come into play
is if we had a function such as display.
We're gonna save that for the exercise.
This instead of putting it in the except,
let's put it in the try, so
that if something happens in the program
some place then even if we
go through the exception, or if we don't
get through the exception we'll still
close the file no matter what so we might
also put the function call.
Here also, the point is this, is that a
finally clause, is used to make
sure that some statements are executed, no
matter what else happens in the program.
So we're going to stop this lesson right
here, and as I
mentioned before in the exercise, we'll
demonstrate a more complete use of
finally.
And let's move on to the last lesson of
the chapter, where we
talk about how to create our own
exceptions using something called the
raise statement.